Israel says Tuesday have seen the
fiercest fighting since the war in Gaza
began almost two months ago Israeli
forces say that they've surrounded the
city of Han Yunis in southern Gaza the
military says that it is targeting Hamas
which is classified as a terrorist group
by many countries Israel has told
hundreds of thousands of civilians to
evacuate the area around hunis and to
head towards the Mediterranean Coast or
further south towards the border with
Egypt the world health organizations
says that the situation in Gaza is
getting worse by the
hour 10 cities are now a common sight in
K yunes many Palestinians set up camp in
the city after fleeing Israeli air
strikes in Northern Gaza but being here
hasn't been safe either and it's getting
worse it's even difficult for people to
speak safely to
reporters
[Music]
and the dead are piling up outside the
mogs oh God all the Arab world is
looking on and cannot stop the
Bloodshed what have they done why are
they being
killed what crime did they commit to die
this
death Israel's military has released
footage that it says shows its Fighters
pushing deeper into Southern
Gaza 60 days since the beginning of the
war our forces are surrounding Khan
Yunis in southern
Gaza we are operating with
professionalism clearing the population
ahead of time from the combat
areas gazin have been told to move
further south to Rafa what a wait beats
them there is more tense
cities and a long queue to get drinking
water we're talking about the only
desalination plant in Rafa that is
providing inhabitants with clean water
it's powered by solar energy and we're
in winter so if that stops we will not
be able to provide people with any
water the United Nations says more than
80% of gaza's population have been
driven from their homes
and space on this small coastal strip is
running out many simply don't know where
they can find
Refuge all right I want to pull in now
journalist Sammy CLE he's standing by
force in Jerusalem Samy Israeli forces
say that they have been engaged in the
heaviest fighting that they have seen
since the start of this conflict what do
we know exactly about the details of
this fighting
today well we're talking about the two
areas both in the south of the Gaza STP
but also in the area of the Gaza City
Israel has moved to operate in the South
but it still doesn't have full control
over Gaza City and its area there have
been heavy fighting in jabalia which is
a refugee camp in the north of the Gaza
Strip on the outskirts of the city of
Gaza and there's been heavy fighting in
Shia which is just east of the city of
Gaza then of course in
we have forces that are now inside the
city of kanun and on top of the ground
troops we have seen again more air
strikes again
striking both what we call military
targets but also residential areas where
IDF says there might be Hamas operatives
so what do we know then about the the
strategy that the IDF has planned for
the the near future and I want to ask
you about a report that says that the
military may be planning to flood the
extensive tunnel Network that Hamas has
constructed underneath
Gaza well prime minister Benjamin
Netanyahu uh was asked precisely this
question in a press conference today and
he said that he's not going to give
details on operative steps and he was
also addressed by the same issue while
meeting today with families of hostages
but also hostages who were released from
Gaza and they had a meeting together
with the Prime Minister and the war
cabinet and there they said that they're
hearing that they're going to flood
these tunnels and that their relatives
and their family members are inside
these tunnels and they were very
concerned not only about plans to to
flood the tunnels but also the bombing
in Gaza they some of them were saying
that Israel should stop the bombing some
were saying that we were bombed when we
were in Gaza and we were fearing more of
the Israeli bombing than of Hamas in
these words it was a very tense meeting
I can tell you yeah and speaking of the
hostages Hamas has said that there will
be no negotiations or exchange of
detainees until Israel's military
operation in Gaza stops has there been a
reaction from Israeli authorities to
that it sounds like based on what you're
saying is you're getting pressure not
only from Hamas but also from the
families of hostages all of this on the
Israeli military in
government there was a very tense
meeting members of the families and
those who were hostage were saying that
any day that passes puts their uh family
is in danger they were saying that
there's a shortage of food that their
men are being treated badly there that
there is a fear that there's not good
intelligence they were also saying that
they also have doubts about the collapse
of the ceasefire Nan said that it was
hamas's fault but there was one captive
who was saying no it's not true so there
was a heated debate at the end many were
saying that they don't believe that
Netanyahu is actually committed to the U
release of the hostages others had a
different position uh but I can tell you
that nany's message was that the first
release was not as a result of these
talks but rather a result of the
military pressure and therefore Israel
now has to continue its military
pressure on Hamas and then Hamas will
surrender
and hand over the prisoners or the
captives that are held by Hamas in the
Gaza straet only time will tell Sammy
Soo reporting tonight from Jerusalem
Sammy as always thank
you I asked Christian Lin Meer of the
World Health Organization what the
encirclement of the city of hunis what
it means for civilians
there thanks for having me well this is
just another step in their nightmare um
as your report already said people have
been sometimes two or three times
already relocating from the very north
of Gaza to the to Gaza City from Gaza
City Duan unit always being promised a
safe place a safe route um have been
bombed on shell on the road um then
hunis was the safe space for a while now
hunis is surrounded moving or asking
people to move further south and where
to then but in kanun this means that the
last big place with big hospitals uh
with with three partially or in total
the whole South with 12 partially
functioning hospitals and the only big
remaining hospitals two of them Al NASA
and the European hospital um are now
having the same fate coming up as we had
for the famous alifa and other hospitals
in the north meaning being put out of
service um either by being shelled and
bombed or by not having access to any
material anymore that means the people
who are already distressed and wounded
and displaced and in fear have no single
spot to go to anymore to find any
support any relief or any help one of
your colleagues in Rafa says that the
situation in the Gaza Strip is
approaching Humanities and I'm quoting
here Darkest Hour um what more can you
tell us about that I mean can you can
you say that's
true look we have 2.4 million people in
Gaza uh about two-thirds of them are
descendants from the from the refugees
that were pushed out of Israel already
what now 70 years ago um so they are
being displaced and displaced and
displaced and they're being told find a
safe spot they're even told where they
can find the safe spot um and then
they're being bombed in shelters in
schools in hospitals uh that's already
more than you can imagine and something
you have to that scale seen anywhere
around now they're being pushed to
another sa so-called safe area with with
a diseas is looming because in a cramped
uh situation with no hygiene anymore
completely pressed together people
wounded people with regular diseases um
not having any support anymore not no no
possibility to go anymore anywhere
anymore because the southern border is
the Egyptian border where they can't
apart from a few evacuations can't
really cross the other part is the is
the seaside and the eastern part is is
Israel no places to go to so how how
densely do you want to press them
together you want to press them on the
sides of a football field somebody
compared the size they should locate to
now to to the size double the size of to
the size of uh Heathrow Airport London
heo Airport just imagine 2.4 million
people in the size of uh Heath airport
yes that is a humanitarian catastrophe
to the scale which I think all of us
that work in humanitarian area have have
barely seen and and can we say they they
are being told to go to these safe zones
after that though there is nowhere else
to go I mean the pressure will be on
then what for Egypt to open its Gates
right well this is ex exactly the point
I mean we're very soon now having the
the second anniversary the month
anniversary the second month anniversary
of this of the disaster of the first of
course the cruel attacks and the
absolute crazy horrific attacks by by
Hamas onto Israel but already for the
first anniversary on 7 November we
warned uh that the attacks of of uh of
Israel in Gaza leave no safe space it's
an attack not only against Hamas it's a
attack against the population there is
no space and safe space in G Gaza and
the last four weeks have just proven
exactly that there is not a single safe
space in Gaza people have been bombed in
places and areas that were literally
designated as safe spots colleagues have
been have been killed on the ground
colleagues have been killed in schools
um everywhere ambulances attacked so yes
there is no place to go unless they
would all push them into the sea or
across Israel or across to Egypt none of
this really seems to be an option
although I'm I'm not the military
strategist here Christian linm with the
World Health Organization we appreciate
your time and your analysis tonight
thank
you